Wow.
You guys all look how I feel.
Happens when your worst day
is immortalized in print.
Bad karma.
Bad karma for what?
We were all just staring
to groove, weren't we?
I should have never doubted myself.
I should have gotten there sooner.
My personal life affected
my decision-making.
Guys, I should have made
a diagnosis sooner.
But we can't just sit here
beating ourselves up over it.
- Okay?
- I feel like we can.
Or at least I can.
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
"Yesterday morning, at 7:38 a.m.,
a bullet ripped through New Amsterdam."
Synced & corrected by -robtor-
www.addic7ed.com
I got dinged for not changing
my patient's TV channel
fast enough.
Apparently my name brings
back bad memories.
I get it.
The customer satisfaction
survey isn't good.
- So rewrite the survey.
- What?
If you don't like the answers,
change the questions.
What should the patients focus on?
Nurses know better than anyone.
Harold.
You're a long way from the morgue.
Oh, the ICU has the only
decent coffee in the hospital.
You know, I may work with the dead,
but that doesn't mean I have their taste.
Well, I say equal coffee now,
equal coffee forever.
It's a joke, Harold.
We'll get you the same coffee.
Sharpe, why does nobody get my jokes?
You just missed me solve the
hospital's most vexing problem.
That the ICU has the only decent coffee?
So that is actually a thing?
- Are you heading out?
- I was.
When did that happen to your voice?
On my day off. That'll teach me.
You don't think the, uh,
"Nutella" is spreading, do you?
I hope you don't expect me
to call it that.
Why? Everyone loves Nutella.
Let me do a laryngoscopy
and see what's going on
with the, uh... Nutella.
See? It's catchy.
Dora.
Getting exceptionally good at finding me.
I've updated your tracking device.
Whatever it is that you wanna
tell me or want me to do,
I can't do it 'cause I have a thing.
My thing trumps your thing.
- Find me later.
- Okay.
Max, this is Louis Navarro
from the "Standard."
Apparently HCC approved him
to shadow you.
Right, yes. For the, um, profile.
Overlord told me.
- Overlord?
- HCC.
Your supervisors.
Who doesn't like a fun nickname?
Probably HCC.
Do you have a contentious relationship
with the Health Care Commission?
Off to a great start.
Well, if you'll excuse me,
I'm gonna go start
posting my résumé.
Do you?
Why don't we start over?
Pleasure to meet you, Mr. Navarro.
No, Lou.
So intrigued to meet the 'Dam's
newest medical director
turning this place upside-down.
Well, I'm an open book.
Hey, is, uh, your voice okay?
Karaoke. You know, one of these
days, I have to accept that
"Total Eclipse of the Heart"
just isn't in my range.
- Pan roasted whole branzino.
- Mm-hmm.
Served with ramps and fiddleheads
steeped in an unctuous maitake jus.
- What are fiddleheads?
- I have no idea.
But I'm gonna order them tonight.
- Mmm.
- Maybe even twice.
Taking Martin to Verdugo for dinner.
No kids.
You know, I think once a year,
it's important to go somewhere
that doesn't have a maze on the menu.
- You know what I mean?
- Dr. Kapoor?
Am I needed?
There's somebody here to see you.
He said he's your son.
Who?
- Your son?
- Wait, you have a son?
Hey, hey.
You have a son?
Vijay.
Hmm... not good.
You only have five eggs...
oh, maybe six in play,
in your ovulation cycle.
Ten is considered normal.
There's a few weeks left in my cycle.
Others could still catch up.
Yes, in theory, they could, but...
I'm a late bloomer.
School, my chest, men.
These eggs will come round.
Helen, you said you wanted to
know where your fertility was.
Well, here it is.
Your FSH is high.
Your AMH is low because
your ovaries are aging fast.
You have diminished
ovarian reserves, which...
Hey.
Hey, it's just the genes you were dealt.
Yeah, right.
If you're interested in having your own
biological child,
you're gonna have to work
on that now.
One option, we freeze embryos.
Or we could work to start
getting you pregnant
as soon as your next cycle.
So, um...
You're going to have to make
some decisions on this.
That piece that you wrote on the uh, uh,
corporatization of health care
for the "Times" was great.
Oh, you remember that?
That was a decade ago.
Yeah, but my favorite is
the one you wrote on the, uh,
uh, inadequacies of...
of maternal postpartum care.
Mm, also ten years ago.
Yeah, why aren't you writing
pieces like that anymore?
Well, you know,
the market now demands shorter,
buzzier topics.
But the health care system demands more.
Okay, yeah, let's...
let's talk about you.
Your story. How you got here.
Lou, I'm flattered,
but I'm not the story here.
New Amsterdam is.
Mm, the only thing new
about New Amsterdam is you.
Now, HCC gave me full access
to follow you around
- the entire hospital.
- Full access?
Anywhere in the hospital is fair game.
Max.
Did you know that HCC
gave Lou full access?
The Chief of Police just called.
It's... it's bad.
Malik Stokes, 14-year-old
GSW to left and right.
It seems like a through and through.
Scoop and go.
He's tachy at 120, 100 over 68,
respiration's at 16.
Jesus, he's just a kid.
Hey, Malik, I'm Dr. Bloom, okay?
We're here to help you.
Malik?
I'm here, baby.
Malik? Malik?
I'm right here, baby. I'm here, baby.
Ma'am, I'm gonna
have to ask you to leave.
He can't die like this.
You have to save him.
He can't die...
Escort her out of here, please.
Okay, transfer on my count.
One, two, three.
Second ambulance coming in.
Type and cross two units
and get a second IV.
Jalen Pagan.
17-year-old GSW with a bullet hole
on the left side of his neck.
98, 145 over 85, 14.
He was on the same corner
as the first victim.
According to NYPD, only one shot.
One bullet.
Must have been some bullet.
Okay, let's get him into bay 24.
Jalen, can you wiggle your toes for me?
Okay, that's great.
Malik's BP is dropping.
Heart rate is rising.
Okay, hang two bags of normal saline.
Let's get a type and cross match.
On it.
Heart rate's climbing now to 154.
And BP's dropping. 80/40.
Muffled heart sounds.
Malik's got a pericardial effusion.
Fluid must be accumulating
around his heart.
Heart rate's gone from 100 to 160.
Okay, if we don't do
a pericardiocentesis soon,
his BP will bottom out.
Where's cardiothoracic surgery?
- Reynolds is ten minutes out.
- What about one of his new hires?
All three have been scrubbed
for their own surgeries.
BP's dropping again.
Okay, I'll do it.
Uh, get me an 18-gauge spinal needle
and a 20-cc syringe. Go.
- It's against protocol.
- What do you want me to do?
Wait until he's pulseless
so I can call time of death?
Get me an 18-gauge spinal needle
and a 20-cc syringe. Now.
Heart rate's up to 180.
Get a second IV bag.
O2 sats are dropping.
Steady. Steady.
- BP's dropping.
- I got it.
- You're in the heart.
- Heart rate's rising.
Damn it.
Max, you're not walking
towards your office.
I'm walking to the ED where the GSWs are.
What about Chief Williams?
Well, last time I checked,
he wasn't shot.
He... he's just gonna call again.
Well, I'll ignore that call,
too, and then eventually,
he'll stop dialing.
He doesn't dial his own phone.
You normally in the habit of blowing off
the Chief of Police?
Oh, the police department
has its own agenda.
But my agenda and the agenda of
my hospital is to save lives.
Plain and simple.
Yeah, you realize this is probably
a police-related shooting, right?
That information,
while tragic and upsetting,
- doesn't matter in here.
- Wait, doesn't matter?
More than 700 people have been
shot and killed by the police
just this year.
And the second they come
through these doors,
they become patients, not statistics.
Okay, hold on. Wait.
If you wanna do a ride-along with
the police, then you go ahead.
But in here, the hospital is the story.
When exactly did you
become a cardiac surgeon?
When we were waiting on you. On anyone.
'Cause you're still
so insanely understaffed.
I mean, what was I supposed to do?
- Supposed to follow protocol.
- He would have crashed.
You pushed that needle
way too deep into his heart
'cause you are not a cardiac surgeon.
You better hope I can fix this.
Ms. Tewkes. Can you talk to me?
Ms. Tewkes? Ms. Tewkes.
At what point did you see the officers...
Uh, hang on. Hang on there.
Just one sec. I'm sorry to
cut in on you, Officer...
Detective. Adams.
NYPD. And you're?
Frome. NAMC.
New Amsterdam Medical Center.
It's, uh, it's a mouthful, I know.
Um, I'm gonna need you to give
Ms. Tewkes a little room here.
I just need a few statements
from the aunt there.
No, I understand, but we're just...
We're gonna do our thing first, okay?
Thank you. I'll bring her back.
Are you one of Malik's surgeons?
Um, no. No.
Here. Come in here.
No, I'm, uh... I'm a psychiatrist.
I'm on Malik's trauma support team.
I'm Iggy Frome.
What does he need with a psychiatrist?
- Is he out of surgery?
- No.
No, not yet. Um...
But, uh, if his surgery is a success,
he's gonna need more
than physical rehabilitation.
There will be many, many
mental hurdles to overcome.
So you don't know how he is now?
No.
But, um, I can assure you that he's in...
He's in the best hands.
Yo, that's so bugged.
Word to, son.
It's all good, though.
Your boy bulletproof.
How are you bulletproof
with a bullet hole, B?
You sound dumb-smacked.
You're just jealous.
Why is Jalen Pagan still here?
- Why do you sound like a frog?
- Allergies.
Why hasn't he been sent for an MRI?
He's got a bullet lodged near T1.
Yes, but he's stable, and he's a minor.
So we're trying to contact
his mother for consent.
It's an MRI.
I'm just following protocol.
I mean, I wouldn't wanna piss
anyone off overstepping
any precious rules, would I?
Gonna say no.
How long have the cops been circling?
A while now. They want a statement
from Jalen like yesterday.
Not till we reach his parents.
Yo, what's up, guys? Jalen's gotta go.
We gotta call his mom, okay? Thanks, bye.
Oh, my God. Are you serious?
It's for your own good.
Now, help me call your mom.
You need money?
I have a job.
It's at a restaurant.
Solsistce, in SoHo.
It's new, but it's making noise.
A restaurant.
Yeah, I manage the place.
I mean, it's no big deal. Just...
Why were you hiding all this?
I don't know.
It's weird enough,
me showing up like this, but...
After I got your voice mail, I...
Rohan, I'm...
I'm glad you came.
I forgive you.
You forgive me?
Yes, for...
For the funeral, for all the lies.
For everything.
You forgive me?
Isn't that what people
like you need to hear?
You know, my sponsor said not to...
Not to expect...
Never mind.
- But I don't understand...
- Yeah, of course you don't.
You know, Maji was right.
You are just so pigheaded.
Nothing is ever your fault.
You know, I was hoping you might change
just a little after she passed.
But you're still you.
Good-bye, Appa.
Ms. Tewkes, can you tell me about Malik?
Rhonda.
What? Why are you still talking?
I'm just trying to learn
more about Malik's
home support system.
He's not some charity case.
No, no, I didn't mean to imply...
Malik has been well-loved.
And extremely well cared for.
Is that what you need to hear?
- It's good.
- Church choir.
After-school care. Year-round sports.
I've done everything
in my power to keep him safe.
To keep him from dying like his parents.
This foolishness still found him.
I'm genuinely just here trying to help.
If you really wanna help,
then stop the police
from shooting black boys
trying to get to school on time.
And get every bullet out of this city.
So my nephew has a chance
of seeing his 21st birthday.
Can you do that, Mr. Trauma Support Man?
So we should start.
Excuse me one minute.
- I got your page.
- Have you been crying?
Do you want this laryngoscopy or not?
What's a laryngoscopy?
Just call me when you're free.
So, Lou, what's the story?
Well, it seems your purge of
the cardiac surgery department
has resulted in, uh, staffing shortages.
That the new department head
is thoughtfully refilling.
Yeah, apparently not fast
enough to stop a breach
of protocol by one of your
department chiefs.
The doctor stuck a needle way too deep
into Malik Stokes' heart.
Now, it's very possible
he could die from this.
Now, do you have a comment?
Uh, you gonna fire Dr. Bloom?
Who said anything about firing?
Well, if Malik dies because
she broke protocol...
I only care if what she did helped him.
We're in the business of healing.
And if protocol gets in the way of that,
then we will change the protocol.
Oh, can... can I quote you on that?
I just assumed all this
was on the record.
- Max.
- Really?
The police chief? Still?
No, the Mayor. Congratulations.
You've moved up in the world.
He wants an update on the injuries
and the kind of bullet that was used.
I don't wanna talk to him either.
Any idea why he would wanna know that?
Yeah, but his agenda is not your story.
Hospital is, remember?
Hello, Jalen.
I'm Dr. Vijay Kapoor.
Would you mind wiggling
your toes for me, please?
I already did a work-up, Vijay.
The bullet stays.
Sending him up to the ward
for observation.
- Jalen, go ahead.
- I am.
Okay, tell me
if you feel something, okay?
Yeah.
- Pull his X-rays.
- Sure thing.
Dr. Hartman, he has ascending paralysis.
That just started.
It's probably from edema.
I already had them start
on methylprednisolone.
It's not edema.
His vertebrae is unstable.
You're a surgeon. Fix it.
What's got you riled up today?
A neurologist advocating
for a construction project?
Because it's indicated.
These scans don't say that definitively.
If you actually look, they do.
You're being stubborn.
Okay, let's wait for the
bloody vertebrae to collapse
for proof!
What?
Prep him for surgery.
You coming, John Wayne?
See, there? No trace wave.
So all that blood must have
come from where the bullet
nicked his heart, not my needle.
And you needed a video to tell you that?
Oh, I needed something, okay?
I'm second-guessing every
move I make in there now.
Do you think that Reynolds
sits around whingeing
about the calls that he makes?
No.
What is it?
They need a hematology consult in the OR.
- Malik?
- No.
The other GSW, Jalen.
Infusion rate is .5 mils per minute.
It won't clot.
Blood keeps oozing
into my surgical field.
And you've got an expanding hematoma.
It's because Kapoor pressed
for stabilizing rods.
That you know he needed.
But now I can't close,
so we should have waited.
And let him because paraplegic?
For goodness' sake,
will you both give it a rest?
Push calcium chloride
before giving him FFP.
That should stabilize
the oozing while I run
a detailed clotting factor analysis.
Hi.
I will, um...
Freely admit that I'm
stress-eating right now.
Ruining my appetite
for what will surely be
a very expensive meal
with my husband later.
I didn't see anything.
Thank you.
What's wrong with your voice?
Ah, it's the, uh, big game.
- The... What big game?
- Why are you stress-eating?
They're out there right now
for Malik and Jalen.
But tomorrow,
it's gonna be another family
crying, scared, praying.
And this happens every day.
And Malik and Jalen could end
up here again through no fault
- of their own.
- Yeah.
Maybe, but you do what you can in here,
maybe make a difference out there.
I don't see how.
Malik lives in a war zone.
Both of his parents are dead.
His aunt is...
Fraying at the seams, and she's angry.
Distracted.
You seem very focused on Malik.
Of course I am.
Sounds like Malik
isn't your only patient.
Blood pressure dropped again.
Come on, Malik.
Where is that damn bleeder?
Wipe.
Nottingham, is this abdomen distended?
I don't feel anything.
Cut the drapes.
He's got Grey Turner's sign
on his abdomen.
Because it's full of blood.
That's where that bleeder is, damn it.
Prepare to expand the surgical
field to the abdomen.
Shouldn't we call the general surgeon?
If we're hitting the spleen...
He's bleeding out fast,
and I'll be damned if this kid
dies on my watch.
Ten blade.
Scrub in. STAT.
Where's the barnacle?
Probably writing an exposé
about our coffee situation.
Well, I can scope you now.
I'm just waiting on Jalen's test results.
What's going on with you?
- Nothing.
- Red eyes earlier.
Now you're mean-mugging.
Helen, you know
my biggest, hairiest secret.
So if you need to talk to me...
You're the one with the "Nutella."
Not me.
So let's just do the scope
before you get another page.
Max!
I said I ain't giving you my phone!
Whoa, whoa, whoa. What is the problem?
The name's Javier Pagan.
We found him filming in the ED.
Yeah, because that's where
y'all took my brother...
- Okay, okay.
- And now he isn't there!
Hey, who is your brother?
How many people I gotta tell? Jalen.
- Okay.
- Jalen Pagan.
He was shot in the back.
But now nobody wants to tell
me where y'all took him!
My mom keeps calling me trying
to get here from her job.
Keeps asking me for news
that I can't give her!
I understand...
And now I got these two
dumb-ass rent-a-cops
getting spicy over a damn phone!
I understand. Calm down.
Calm down. Listen, listen, listen!
You're gonna come with me.
We're gonna talk about
your brother, okay?
You need to make sure
he didn't film any hospital
personnel or patients. It's policy.
You are making this worse.
What? You think I'm scared?
- Huh?
- Back up.
Okay? It's okay.
No, no. You think I'm scared?
- Are you gonna shoot me, too?
- It's okay.
Easy, man.
- Are you gonna shoot me too?
- Calm down, son.
- Back off.
- You need to calm down.
Hey, hey, just back... give him space!
Max!
No!
If I'd have known that punching
you in the face was all it took
to make you available,
I'd have done it myself.
How long for the test results?
I'll have them in the morning.
In the meantime, I was thinking a course
of steroids might help clear the, uh...
Steroids.
What?
- I have to go.
- What about me?
Here. Heal thyself.
Changing out the CO2 absorber.
Hanging a bag of cryoprecipitate.
- Hanging.
- Tests come back?
No, but Jalen isn't clotting
because he's on anabolic steroids.
Seems a bit out of left field.
Not if you've seen
his brother or factor in
Jalen's damaged liver.
But his liver function tests were normal.
Appear normal.
But his protein levels
tell the whole story.
I confirmed his A/G ratio
is less than one.
He's on steroids.
We should wait for
the tests to come back.
4 mils per minute.
Wait, wait.
It's drying up.
It's working.
Well done, Sharpe.
Hi. Just me.
What happened?
Uh, nothing.
Malik is still in surgery.
But, um, I thought you might
appreciate a fresh
set of clothes.
- Thank you.
- It's my pleasure.
And I've said all I had
to say about Malik
in all of this.
Well, I'm actually not here
to talk about Malik.
I'm here to talk about you.
Hey, how'd you earn the shiner?
Can't be Medical Director
at the 'Dam without at least one.
Hey, listen, my contact
at the mayor's office
says they want to hold
a press conference.
It's about what the bullet did
to both Malik and Jalen.
Of course they are.
You going to?
You're getting caught up
in the shiny thing again, Lou.
Yeah, but you get to talk
about your agenda.
Tell your story.
I would love nothing more
than to tell people
what hollow points do to flesh.
How the bullet blooms inside of you,
expanding to three times its size.
How it breaks apart,
tearing through flesh,
pulverizing bones, liquefying muscles.
Just not for the mayor.
Aren't you on the same side?
The mayor's been campaigning the police
to use different bullets.
He wants me to influence public opinion.
I pick a side between
the mayor and the police,
all of a sudden there's less
patrolling in our neighborhood
or a... or a grant we were
assured gets diverted
to another hospital.
There are no safe sides.
So what are you gonna do?
Lou, what are we gonna do with you?
Let me guess.
It's not the story.
May be hope for you yet.
PTSD.
I'm not a soldier. I haven't been to war.
PTSD can occur from any traumatic event.
Seeing your nephew get shot,
that would be more than enough.
But it most likely triggered
other traumatizing memories
for you.
It can make sleeping hard.
Sudden noises can be jarring.
Same thing happened to my kids.
Yeah.
We, uh, we adopted them
from Bangladesh two years ago.
When we first got them here,
they were terrified.
Of everything.
Car horns, school bells.
Crowded spaces, everything.
They were just... petrified.
All five of us slept
in the same bed for months.
And they would just
wake themselves crying.
Night after night after night.
When was the last time
you had a good night's sleep?
Never.
I just thought that was life.
It doesn't have to be.
I can help you.
And then you can help Malik.
Yeah.
- Hey.
Malik's surgery all good?
Yeah, it was a bit dicey,
but he's gonna pull through.
I was just, uh, going to tell his family.
Yeah, they just closed Jalen as well.
Oh.
Score one for the good guys, huh?
I suppose.
Never felt good about fixing
bullet holes in anyone.
Let alone kids, you know?
That's something I will never
understand about this country.
The dangers of walking
around in brown skin?
I never really gave it much
thought until I moved here.
Now I can't not think about it.
Yeah, well, unfortunately
it's a lesson we learn early.
But this is no way to live.
No.
It's not. Yet we do.
You know?
So if it takes a million
camera phones and protests
and knees to make that point, so be it.
I didn't mean to do all that.
Seriously. I'm so sorry.
It's just, Jalen is my little brother.
- And I only got one.
- Don't worry about it.
Really.
I have a sister.
I get it.
So am I being arrested?
I have a better idea.
How about we go see your brother instead?
His surgery went well.
He's in recovery now.
Just easy on that elbow.
Yeah.
My mom's gonna be so hyped
when she gets here.
- Jalen's the baby.
- Yeah?
A little badass too.
Once he poured ketchup
all over his T-shirt.
Acted like he got shot.
Scared the crap out of my moms.
He got the chancla for that one.
No doubt.
He's always pulling
stupid stuff like that.
- What... What's going on?
- Stay here.
- Where's Jalen?
- Javi, look at me.
I need you to stay out here.
He's in pulseless electrical activity.
- Chest compressions?
- Gomez.
Max, one milligram of epi.
No, it's already open.
- V-fib.
- Go.
Clear.
- Still V-fib.
- Another round of epi.
Clear.
No pulse.
Still no pulse.
- Max.
- Wait.
- Just wait!
Stop it, Max.
Stop it.
It's over.
Time of death, 3:18.
Damn, you saw Mami face?
Unstoppable, you heard me?
Oh, man, stop fronting.
You know I'm the brains of the operation.
What brains, man?
What brains? Oh, yeah?
I heard Malik is stable.
And, um...
Jalen died of cardiac arrest
secondary to a gunshot wound.
So you gonna call the Chief of Police?
Mayor?
It's not the story, Lou.
Well, then... then what is?
And what is the story if it's not you,
the police, or the mayor?
If you don't know after spending all day
at this hospital,
then I picked the wrong man
for the job.
Wait, you picked me?
So HCC didn't give me full access.
You did.
Did they even want me here at all?
Why did you?
Gotta see the truth.
To write the truth.
Unstoppable, you heard me?
Oh, man. Stop fronting.
You know I'm the brains of the operation.
Get off, man. That's not funny.
It's not funny. No brains.
No brains.
♪ Too blind
♪ So how's it gonna be
♪ When it all
Hey, Martin, it's me.
Do you think I could take a rain
check on date night tonight?
I just, um...
I really wanna be with you and the kids.
You know, there might not have even been
a patient to save if I hadn't
done the pericardiocentesis.
Yeah, and I wanted to tell
you that you did it perfectly.
I know I did.
I didn't need... nor would
I ask... for your opinion.
Look, Floyd, you're an incredibly gifted
doctor who heads up
a world-class department.
But so am I.
Yeah. You're right.
So we're good?
I don't know.
Are we?
I mean, I don't know.
I really don't want no static
at work after this.
Agreed.
Well, you sound like you're
still in your feelings, so...
Oh, my God.
You just can't help yourself, can you?
You know, for the record,
the spleen is way outside
of cardiac's protocol.
"Yesterday morning, at 7:38 a.m.,
a bullet ripped through New Amsterdam."
"The bullet tore doctors apart.
It tore families apart."
"It tore communities apart."
"It tore Jalen Pagan's body apart."
"And although the hardworking
doctors of New Amsterdam
couldn't save Jalen's life,
they all did their job."
♪ How's it gonna be
"Except the bullet did its job better."
♪ To cycling trivialities
That is the truth.
Not one of you is at fault.
Not one of you is to blame.
I know you could all
be working someplace else.
Making...
Making more money.
♪ Cycling trivialities
Working less hours.
But you're here.
And I'm so grateful.
Today is a new day.
Go.
The "Nutella" didn't spread.
I should stop calling it Nutella.
It's not Nutella. It's cancer.
I should start being honest.
At least with myself.
I want to have a baby.
Okay.
But I'm single
and on the wrong side of 35.
I'd have to do injections
and deal with epic mood swings
if I even wanna give myself a chance.
I don't know why I'd
wanna bring a child...
a brown child... into this world.
There are a thousand reasons not to.
But the only way to beat death...
is life.
There's a word for it.
Surrogacy.
Hope.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org